<!DOCTYPE html>
<ui:composition xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
	xmlns:h="http://java.sun.com/jsf/html"
	xmlns:p="http://primefaces.org/ui"
	xmlns:f="http://java.sun.com/jsf/core"
	xmlns:ui="http://java.sun.com/jsf/facelets"
	xmlns:layout="http://java.sun.com/jsf/composite/layout"
	template="/WEB-INF/templates/standard.xhtml">

	<ui:define name="title">NURSA - Funding</ui:define>

	<ui:define name="nav">
		<ui:include src="/WEB-INF/templates/navBar.xhtml">
			<ui:param name="active" value="Funding" />
		</ui:include>
	</ui:define>"
	
	<ui:define name="breadcrumb">
		<ul class="breadcrumb">
			<li><h:link value="Home" outcome="/index.jsf" /></li>
			<li><h:link value="Funding" outcome="/funding/index.jsf" /></li>
		</ul>
	</ui:define>

	<ui:define name="pageTitle">
		<h5>Current NURSA Data Source Project (NDSP) RFPs</h5>
	</ui:define>

	<ui:define name="body">

		<!-- <p>Currently there are no open NDSP RFPs. Please follow us on <a href="https://twitter.com/NURSATweets" target="_blank">Twitter</a> or check back to this site for details on upcoming RFPs.</p> -->
		<layout:panel title="Funding Cycle 3 (2015) – Now Open!!" style = "primary">
			<strong>IMPORTANT DATES</strong>
			<table class="table table-bordered">
				<tr>
					<td>April 30, 2015</td>
					<td>Deadline for Letter of Intent</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td>June 1, 2015</td>
					<td>Deadline for electronic application submission</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td>September 1, 2015</td>
					<td>Earliest possible start date</td>
				</tr>
			</table>
			<b>FUNDING INFORMATION</b>
			<p>Total costs for each NDSP cannot exceed $150,000/year for 1-2 years.  </p>
			<p>We expect to fund 3-4 NDSPs (for 1 year with additional years dependent on progress and availability of funds).  </p>
			<p><b>Background:</b>  The mission of the Nuclear Receptor Signaling Atlas (NURSA) is to accrue, develop, and communicate information that advances our understanding of the integral role of nuclear receptors in the physiology and pathophysiology of common and chronic metabolic diseases including diabetes, obesity and reproductive diseases and disorders.  Currently, the central core of NURSA is a Hub that provides the integration and cohesion needed to aggregate, annotate, and present in a user friendly fashion state-of-the-art data from multiple sources.  A web portal, <a href="http://www.nursa.org">www.nursa.org</a>, serves as the interface with the broader scientific community. To achieve its goals, the NURSA Hub solicits applications for NURSA Data Source Projects (NDSPs) to provide innovative research input to the Hub.  NDSPs are designed as focused and collaborative projects to explore key issues and questions that represent gaps in the knowledge base. The collaborative and integrative nature of NDSPs depends on the development of important new data transmitted to the Hub for secondary analysis, integration with the NURSA molecule pages, and presentation to the broader community through <a href="http://www.nursa.org">www.nursa.org</a>. NDSP investigators are expected to use a multi-disciplinary approach to accrue data that elucidates the role of nuclear receptors in human metabolic and reproductive disease.  Together with the Hub, the PIs of NDSPs form a consortium of NURSA investigators that contribute to the data flow to the NURSA Hub and work together to advance knowledge of the physiological and pathophysiological role of nuclear receptor signaling.  NDSP PIs should be investigators with well-established and funded laboratories who can leverage their individual and collaborative resources in order to address the scientific goals of the proposed NDSP.  Two previous NDSP announcements have resulted in a total of seven NURSA-funded data source projects that support high quality cross-cutting research that by its nature creates the kind of data the Hub can effectively communicate to the community through the web portal. While some of these projects are high risk, they also provide the possibility of high impact.</p>

			<p><b>Goal:</b>  With this third NDSP announcement, we are soliciting applications that take an integrative physiology approach to address how nuclear receptor (NR) signaling mediates inter-tissue communication to regulate metabolic flow across multiple tissues (e.g. liver, adipose, gut, muscle).  Many studies to date have investigated signaling and metabolic pathways at a tissue specific level.  While these types of studies are clearly crucial to the understanding of metabolism in a specific cell or tissue type, we are looking for proposals that address the mechanisms by which tissues communicate with each other to regulate the homeostatic flow of nutrients.  Numerous studies have demonstrated the integral role that NRs play in metabolic signaling; however, here we are challenging investigators to address the integrative physiology of NR signaling. As one of these projects will be funded by NICHD, your proposal could also address how inter-tissue NR signaling might impact reproduction.  In both cases, we expect that these NDSPs would bring in new concepts and investigators to the NURSA Hub while leveraging the big data capabilities of the Hub with an influx of different data types.  </p>

			<p><b>Instructions:</b> Letters of intent should be no more than one page in length and should be addressed to <a href="mailto:nmckenna@bcm.edu">Dr. Neil McKenna</a> no later than April 30th. Letters of intent will be reviewed and full details on the submission process will be shared only with investigators of responsive projects. Please address any questions to <a href="mailto:silvacm@niddk.nih.gov">Dr. Corinne Silva, NIDDK NURSA Program Officer</a> or <a href="mailto:nmckenna@bcm.edu">Dr. McKenna</a>.</p>

		</layout:panel>

		<p>
			<strong>Previous NURSA Data Source Project (NDSP) RFPs </strong>
		</p>

		<layout:panel title="Funding Cycle 2 (2014)" style = "primary">

			<p>In 2014, an RFP was released containing calls for proposals
				addressing two topics for NURSA NDSP Funding Cycle 2:</p>

			<strong>Topic 1. Studies to advance and translate our
				understanding of nuclear receptor (NR) and coregulator biology and
				physiology to influence disease outcomes. </strong>
			<p>A major need is to understand and elucidate the integration of
				NR-mediated signaling from a complex milieu of competing endogenous
				NR ligands, using among other approaches, bioinformatics and
				computational biology. Areas of interest include:</p>
			<ol>
				<li>Modulation of NR signaling in the gut or liver after
					feeding and role this signaling plays in disease progression (e.g.
					diabetes, obesity). Studies may include NR signaling from the gut
					microbiome as it influences-or is influenced by-disease state.</li>
					
				<li>Given the integral role for low grade, chronic inflammation in
				metabolic disease, investigate the role of NR signaling in the
				crosstalk between inflammation and dysfunctional signaling in
				metabolic tissues. See <a
					href="http://www.immgen.org" target="_blank">Immunological Genome Project</a> as an
				example source of data and protocol information.</li>
			</ol>
			
			<strong>Topic 2. Generation of potentially novel NR ligands that can be applied in chemical biology studies to better understand NR mechanism of action.</strong>
			<p>   Natural products are of
			 particular interest (see <a href = "http://dtp.nci.nih.gov/branches/npb/repository.html" target = "_blank">NCI natural products repository</a> as one 
			 source.)  Areas of interest include:
			 </p>
			 <ol>
			 <li>Development of new fractionation technologies to discover unknown endogenous ligands of NRs and/or NR-focused iterative chemistry approaches such as fragment-based lead design.  Such proposals should describe how the approach is new and likely to assist in identifying unknown NR ligands. </li>
			 <li>b. Analysis of transcriptomic and/or metabolomic signatures associated with the administration of a ligand in a given cell-to compare to that of “new” ligands.  Resultant data should serve as a useful library that could lead to new molecular probes/ligands/drug candidates.</li>
			 </ol>
			 

		</layout:panel>


		<layout:panel title="Funding Cycle 1 (2013)" style = "primary">

			<p>In 2013, an RFP was released containing calls for proposals
				addressing two topics for NURSA NDSP Funding Cycle 1:</p>


			<strong>Topic 1: NUCLEAR RECEPTORS in ENCODE</strong>
			<p>Nuclear receptors and their co-associated proteins regulate
				gene expression in a tissue, cell, ligand and time specific manner.
				NRs bind to DNA in the context of chromatin patterns and cell
				specific gene regulation is mediated through the use of different
				combinations of epigenetic features. The ENCODE project has assigned
				biochemical function to 80% of the human genome and the publically
				available database provides a rich source of integrative data.
				Applications for this topic combined nuclear receptor expertise with
				bioinformatics expertise for mining the datasets available from
				ENCODE, thus allowing the elucidation of NR-specific signaling in a
				context that is relevant to metabolic or reproductive disease.</p>


			<strong>Topic 2: NUCLEAR RECEPTORS and GUT MICROBIOME</strong>
			<p>It has become increasingly well-appreciated that the gut
				microbiome plays an integral role in the course of metabolic
				disease. Proposals for this topic investigate the role of NRs and NR
				signaling in mediating effects of the gut microbiome on intestinal
				physiology, barrier function, and inflammation. Integrate
				metagenomics, microbial metabolomics, gnotobiotic, and/or transgenic
				approaches to identify specific bacterial factors that act via
				nuclear receptors in the intestine and/or define NR-dependent
				changes in intestinal function due to alterations in the gut
				microbiome.</p>

		</layout:panel>



	</ui:define>


</ui:composition>
